All right let's go ahead and add in the reflection on our bottle.
So in a reference from Rainman.
You see there's this nice white reflection that goes almost all the way around the bottle.
This is what we're going to create right now.
So first off what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and add a new layer above this then I'm going
to select the shape of my bottle.
So hold control or command and click my thumbnail on my léa next I'm going to go ahead and grab a white
and then switch over to my brush tool and I want to make sure I'm on a soft edged brush to start off
with next I'm going to go ahead and start painting around these edges and I want to make sure that my
brush opacity is set to two.
So we can slowly layer this up.
Also it's important to notice that every single spot does not have a highlight around it and some areas
are fatter and thicker than others.
So for example on the round edge of our bottle right here you'll see that it's a lot fatter.
And then on this edge it's a lot thinner on that side.
It's a lot fatter and a lot of this just has to do with lightsource.
Now don't worry too much about the light source just any time you're creating a glass object in your
game.
Go ahead and add a highlighted edge around the edge of it an area that wouldn't be getting much reflection
or highlight don't highlight it.
Like for example down here at the bottom at the base there's not really going to be much highlight there.
All right.
Let's go ahead and continue.
So just kind of copping what we're seeing here.
We're going to go ahead and just add that highlight in and the top part of our bottle is basically completely
highlighted some highlighted there.
Come around this edge
then we have a little bit of highlights here and a little bit of highlight right there.
So now we have the base for a highlight.
Let's go ahead and really detail this in and fill it in.
So first I'm to shrink my breast size down because there's going to be some areas like down here at
the bottom where I'm going to want to make it really small so go ahead and keep layering this until
we get it to the brightness that we want it because basically on these edges it's going to be completely
white
I'm going to come down around the bottom like so it doesn't have to be completely perfect.
We can always come back any real stuff
in over here we have this pretty fat thick highlight So we'll add that in and it might take a couple
of layers.
Now just like our wood texture this is going to be a process of layering and erasing and using our color
picker to find mid-tone colors.
And you'll notice that every time I add a new layer on top of the other one it gets brighter because
that white is being layered.
So it's a little transparent right now but as we layer it it becomes more and more opaque.
And if we layer it enough eventually it's going to be completely opaque which just means it's not going
to be see through at all.
So remember that as we get down here we don't want it to be as bright but sometimes we might paint it
in a little bit too bright so we can always come back in with our eraser like this.
So I just switched over to my raised tool and I'm going to bring the opacity of my eraser down to 1
percent by hitting the number one on my keyboard.
And we can go ahead and slowly erase this away to kind of faded out.
Now I want to create a shadow between these two highlights because this part of the bottle is sitting
on top of the stand.
And so I want to have a little bit of a distinction between them.
So I want to switch over to my race to bring my brush size down and then I can kind of a race that way.
Slowly
perfect switch back over to my brush tool and I'm going to continue adding the highlight along the edge.
Another reason why I like to add it in layers is because it can be pretty difficult to just paint a
perfect curved line around the edge.
And so I painted it in layers you can slowly build it up and erase away until you get that perfect curve
in there.
So even if you're using a mouse it makes it a lot easier to get that curve because you can always come
back and take little bits away at a time and add little bits at a time.
So once you get to about this point you're going to want to start really filling in these edges so they
become really opaque because once we fill our bottle with our liquid we don't want to see the liquid
through the white part of the bottle.
We want that to be a complete solid white.
So now we really need to start filling that in.
I'm going to bring my brush opacity up to 50 percent by hitting the number five on my keyboard.
And now I can really fill that in.
And we just want this on the ED or the center of the bottle over here.
We want it to start blending in and fading into transparent
great next.
Let's go ahead and add in some of these little highlights that you see on the bottle.
So like down here we're going to go ahead and start to paint this guy in so now I might bring my brush
and opacity down to 1 percent because we want to really soften this and blend it into the transparency.
What is basically just a curved little lips
just like so and then when my brush is at one percent opacity we can go ahead and kind of blending in.
On these edges into our transparent area.
And if you do mess up you can always go ahead and undo that move.
You can and do as many moves as you want.
But now these edges that are supposed to be blended in they look a little bit too rough for me and not
smooth enough.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and take my eraser and then I'm going to make sure
I'm on a soft edged brush.
I'll bring up my size them.
Then I'm going to bring my opacity down to 20 percent and then I'm going to go ahead and slowly start
erasing into this and that's going to help it blend into the transparency because transparency is not
an actual color that you can blend with.
You can't really take the mid color and then start blending it because if you remember we're not going
to have this dark gray shape back here when we're done.
That's going to be gone so if we turn that off you'll see we'll be left with this.
So we want to make sure that we're blending into transparency and not blending into a color.
All right.
Great.
Next to what we want to do is we want to add this really big highlight right here.
Now this highlight is pretty solid and has pretty hard edges.
So the way we're going to carry it is we're going to add a new layer above this layer and then using
my circular marquee tool I'm going to go ahead and create a perfect circle like so.
And then I'm going to fill that in with white.
So switching over to my fill tool I'll fill that in.
Next I'm going to go ahead and use my Transform Tool and drag it over here into place then I'm going
I right click and use my work tool so I'll click that.
And now what I can do is I can grab this grid and I can work this into whatever shape I want.
So I'm going to try to replicate this little shape right there on the bottle
great.
Now let's go ahead and hit enter then we're going to turn the Transform Tool on once again and then
you'll see that grid system is gone and it's solidified that shape.
So let's go ahead and rotate this a little bit so it fits onto a bottle better.
Now we're going to shrink it down.
Hold down shift to keep the apportions and then I'm going to work this again.
So when I right click and come to work.
And the reason for this is that now that I have in position I want to make sure that it lines up with
the curve of our ball.
So as this battle comes around it's going to have a different curve in each area.
So if we're looking at the curve right here in the center it's just going to be a straight line.
If we're looking at it between the center and this curve it's going to be somewhere in the middle.
So if you can imagine a pumpkin you see this with a pumpkin the middle line is straight.
And the ones further away are more curved and the ones on the very edge are the most curved lines.
And so we want to make this look like it's actually reflected onto our ball.
So we're just going to try to mimic the curve of our bottle as best as possible.
Since Mike so should be good.
Go ahead and hit enter.
Perfect.
I'm going to shrink it down just a little bit more.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create the highlights and the reflections on your bottle in the
next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and fill the bottle with some of this golden contents.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.